good evening from the Thomas & Mack
Center at the University of Nevada Las
Vegas I'm Chris Wallace of Fox News and
I welcome you to the third and final of
the 2016 presidential debates between
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and
Donald J Trump this debate is sponsored
by the Commission on Presidential
Debates the Commission has designed the
format six roughly 15-minute segments
with two-minute answers to the first
question than open discussion for the
rest of each segment both campaigns have
agreed to those rules for the record I
decided the topics and the questions in
each topic none of those questions has
been shared with the Commission or the
two candidates the audience here in the
hall has promised to remain silent no
cheers boos or other interruptions so we
and you can focus on what the candidates
have to say no noise except right now as
we welcome the Democratic nominee for
president Secretary Clinton and the
Republican nominee for president mr.
Trump
Secretary Clinton mr. Trump welcome
let's get right to it the first topic is
the Supreme Court we you both talked
briefly about the court in the last
debate but I want to drill down on this
because the next president will almost
certainly have at least one appointment
and likely or possibly two or three
appointments which means that you will
in effect determine the balance of the
court for what could be the next quarter
century first of all where do you want
to see the court take the country and
secondly what's your view on how the
Constitution should be interpreted is do
the founders words mean what they say or
is it a living document to be a flaw
applied flexibly according to changing
circumstances in this segment Secretary
Clinton you go first you have two
minutes thank you very much Chris and
thanks to UNLV for hosting us you know I
think when we talk about the Supreme
Court it really raises the central issue
in this election namely what kind of
country are we going to be what kind of
opportunities will we provide for our
citizens what kind of Rights will
Americans have and I feel strongly that
the Supreme Court needs to stand on the
side of the American people not on the
side of the powerful corporations and
the wealthy for me that means that we
need a Supreme Court that will stand up
on behalf of women's rights on behalf of
the rights of the LGBT community that
will stand up and say no the Citizens
United a decision that has undermined
the election system in our country
because of the way it permits dark
unaccountable money to come into our
electoral system I have major
disagreements with my opponent about
these issues and others that will be
before the Supreme Court but I feel that
at this point in our country's history
it is important that we not reverse
marriage equality that we not reverse
roe v wade that we stand up again
citizens united we stand up for the
rights of people in the workplace that
we stand up and basically say the
Supreme Court should represent all of us
that's how I see the court and the kind
of people that I would be looking to
nominate to the court would be in the
great tradition of standing up to the
powerful standing up on behalf of our
rights as Americans and I look forward
to having that opportunity I would hope
that the Senate would do its job and
confirm the nominee that President Obama
has sent to them that's the way the
Constitution fundamentally should
operate the president nominates and then
the Senate advises and consents or not
but they go forward with the process
Secretary Clinton thank you mr. Trump
same question where do you want to see
the court take the country and how do
you believe a constitution should be
interpreted well first of all it's so
great to be with you and thank you
everybody the Supreme Court it's what
it's all about
our country is so so it's just so
imperative that we have the right
justices something happened recently
where Justice Ginsburg made some very
very inappropriate
statements toward me and toward a
tremendous number of people many many
millions of people that I represent and
she was forced to apologize and
apologize she did but these were
statements that should never ever have
been made we need a Supreme Court that
in my opinion is going to uphold the
Second Amendment and all amendments but
the Second Amendment which is under
absolute siege
I believe if my opponent should win this
race which I truly don't think will
happen we will have a second Amendment
which will be a very very small replica
of what it is right now but I feel that
it's absolutely important that we
appalled because of the fact that it is
under such trauma I feel that the
justices that I am going to appoint and
I've named 20 of them the justices that
I'm going to a point will be pro-life
they will have a conservative bent
they will be protecting the Second
Amendment they are great scholars in all
cases and they're people of tremendous
respect they will interpret the
Constitution the way the founders wanted
it interpreted and I believe that's very
very important I don't think we should
have justices appointed that decide what
they want to hear it's all about the
constitution of and so important the
Constitution the way it was meant to be
and those are the people that I will
appoint mr. Trump thank you we now have
about ten minutes for an open discussion
I want to focus on two issues that in
fact by the justices that you named
could end up changing the existing law
of the land first is one that you
mentioned mr. Trump and that has gone
Secretary Clinton you said last year let
me quote the Supreme Court is wrong on
the Second Amendment and now in fact in
the 2008 Heller case the court ruled
that there is a constitutional right to
bear arms but a a right that is
reasonably limited those were the words
of the of the judge Antonin Scalia who
wrote the decision what's wrong with
that well first of all I support the
Second Amendment I lived in Arkansas for
18 wonderful years I represented upstate
New York I understand and respect the
tradition of gun ownership it goes back
to the founding of our country but I
also believe that there can be and must
be reasonable regulation because I
support the Second Amendment doesn't
mean that I want people who shouldn't
have guns to be able to threaten you
kill you are members of your family and
so when I think about what we need to do
we have 33,000 people a year who die
from guns I think we need comprehensive
background checks we need to close the
online loophole close the gun show
loophole there's other matters that I
think are sensible that are the kind of
reforms that would make a difference
that are not in any way conflicting with
the Second Amendment you mentioned the
Heller decision and what
was saying that you reference Chris was
that I disagreed with the way the court
applied the Second Amendment in that
case because what the District of
Columbia was trying to do was to protect
toddlers from guns and so they wanted
people with guns to safely store them
and the court didn't accept that
reasonable regulation but they've
accepted many others so I see no
conflict between saving people's lives
and defending the Second Amendment let
me bring mr. Trump in here the
bipartisan open debate coalition got
billions of votes on questions to ask
here and this was in fact one of the top
questions that they got how will you
ensure the Second Amendment is protected
you just heard secretary Clinton's
answer does she persuade you that while
you may difference agree on regulation
that in fact he supports a Second
Amendment right to bear arms well the DC
versus Heller decision was very strongly
and she was extremely angry about it I
watched when she was very very angry
when upheld and Justice Scalia was so
involved and it was a well crafted
decision but Hillary was extremely upset
extremely angry and people that believe
in the Second Amendment and believe in
it very strongly were very upset with
what she had to say let me let me bring
in Secretary Clinton were you extremely
upset well I was upset because
unfortunately dozens of toddlers injure
themselves even kill people with guns
because unfortunately not everyone who
has loaded guns in their homes take
appropriate precautions but there's no
doubt that I respect the Second
Amendment that I also believe there's an
individual right to bear arms that is
not in conflict with sensible
common-sense regulation and you know
look I understand that Donald's been
strongly supported by the NRA the gun
lobby's on his side they're running
millions of dollars of ads against me
and I regret that because what I would
like to see is for people to come
together and say of course we're going
to protect and defend the Second
Amendment but
going to do it in a way that tries to
save some of these 33,000 lives that we
lose everyone here let me bring mr.
Trump back into that because in fact you
oppose any limits on assault weapons any
limits on high-capacity magazines you
support a National right-to-carry law
why sir well let me just tell you before
we go any further in Chicago which has
the toughest gun laws in the United
States probably you could say by far
they have more gun violence than any
other city so we have the toughest laws
and you have tremendous gun violence I
am a very strong supporter of the Second
Amendment and I am I don't know if
Hillary was saying it in a sarcastic
manner but I'm very proud to have the
endorsement of the NRA and it's the
earliest endorsement they've ever given
to anybody who ran for president so I'm
very honored by all of that we are going
to appoint justices this is the best way
to help the Second Amendment we are
going to appoint justices that will feel
very strongly about the Second Amendment
that will not do damage to the Second
Amendment well let's pick up on another
issue which divides you and the Justice
is that whoever ends up winning this
election appoints could have a dramatic
effect that there and that's the issue
of abortion right mr. Trump you're
pro-life but I want to ask you
specifically do you want the court
including the justices that you will
name to overturn roe v wade which
includes in fact states a woman's right
to abortion well if that would happen
because I am pro-life and I will be
appointing pro-life judges I would think
that that will go back to the individual
states but I'm asking you specifically
would you be overturned it'll go back to
the states but what I'm asking you sir
is do you want to see the court overturn
you've just said you want to see the
court protect the Second Amendment
do you want to see the court overturned
well if we put another two or perhaps
three justices on that's really what's
going to be had that's will happen and
that'll happen automatically in my
opinion because I am putting pro-life
and justices on the court I will say
this it will go back to the states and
the states will then make a
determination Secretary class I strongly
or roe v-- wade which guarantees a
constitutional right to a woman to make
the most intimate most difficult in many
cases decisions about her health care
that one can imagine and in this case
it's not only about roe v-- wade it is
about what's happening right now in
America so many states are putting very
stringent regulations on women that
block them from exercising that choice
to the extent that they are defunding
Planned Parenthood which of course
provides all kinds of cancer screenings
and other benefits for women in our
country Donald has said he's in favor of
defunding Planned Parenthood even
supported shutting the government down
to defund Planned Parenthood I will
defend Planned Parenthood I will defend
roe v wade and I will defend women's
rights to make their own healthcare
decision I'm sorry we have come too far
to have that turn back now and in indeed
he said women should be punished that
there should be some form of punishment
for women who obtain abortions and I
could just not be more opposed to that
kind of thinking I'm gonna give you a
chance to respond but I want to ask you
Secretary Clinton I want to explore how
far you believe the right to abortion
goes you have been quoted as saying that
the fetus has no constitutional rights
you also voted against a ban on late
term partial birth abortions why because
roe v wade very clearly sets out that
there can be regulations on abortion so
long as the life and the health of the
mother are taken into account and when I
voted as a senator I did not think that
that was the case the kinds of cases
that fall at the end of pregnancy are
often the most heartbreaking painful
decisions for families to make I have
met with women who have toward the end
of their pregnancy get the worst news
one could get that their health is in
jeopardy if they continue to carry to
term
or that something terrible has happened
or just been discovered about the
pregnancy I do not think the United
States government should be stepping in
and making those most personal of
decisions so you can regulate if you are
doing so with the life and the health of
the mother taken into account mr. Trump
your reaction and particularly on this
issue of late term partial birth well
it's terrible if you go with what
Hillary is saying in the ninth month you
can take the baby and rip the baby out
of the womb of the mother just prior to
the birth of the baby now you can say
that that's okay and Hillary can say
that that's okay but it's not okay with
me
because based on what she's saying and
based on where she's going and where
she's been you can take the baby and rip
the baby out of the womb in the ninth
month on the final day and that's not
acceptable well that is not what happens
in these cases and using that kind of
scare rhetoric is just terribly
unfortunate you should meet with some of
the women that I've met with women I've
known over the course of my life this is
one of the worst possible choices that
any woman and her family has to make and
I do not believe the government should
be making it you know I've had the great
honor of travelling across the world on
behalf of our country I've been to
countries where governments either
forced women to have abortions like they
used to do in China or forced women to
bear children like they used to do in
Romania and I can tell you the
government has no business in the
decisions that women make with their
families in accordance with their faith
with medical advice and I will stand up
for that right all right but just
briefly I want to move on
nobody has business doing what I just
said doing that as late as one or two or
three or four days prior to birth nobody
has that all right let's move on to the
subject of immigration and there is
almost no issue that separates the two
of you more than the issue of
immigration actually there are a lot of
issues that separate the two of you mr.
Trump you want to build a walls
Kotori Clinton you have offered no
specific plan for how you want to secure
our southern border mr. Trump you are
calling for major deportations Secretary
Clinton you say that within your first
hundred days as president you're going
to offer a package that includes a
pathway to citizenship the question
really is why are you right and your
opponent wrong mr. Trump you go first in
this segment you have two minutes well
first of all she wants to give amnesty
which is a disaster and very unfair to
all of the people that waiting in line
for many many years
we need strong borders in the audience
tonight we have for mothers of I mean
these are unbelievable people that I've
gotten to know over a period of years
whose children have been killed brutally
killed by people that came into the
country illegally you have thousands of
mothers and fathers and relatives all
over the country they're coming in
illegally drugs are pouring in through
the border we have no country if we have
no border Hillary wants to give amnesty
she wants to have open borders the
border secure as you know the Border
Patrol agent 16,500 plus ice last week
endorsed me first time they've ever
endorsed a candidate it means their job
is tougher but they know what's going on
that they know it better than anybody
who they want strong borders they feel
we have to have strong borders I was up
in New Hampshire the other day the
biggest complaint they have it's with
all of the problems going on in the
world many of the problems caused by
Hillary Clinton and by Barack Obama all
of the problems their single biggest
problem is heroin that pours across our
southern borders just pouring and
destroying their youth it's poisoning
the blood of their youth and plenty of
other people we have to have strong
borders we have to keep the drugs out of
our country we are right now we're
getting the drugs they're getting the
cash we need strong borders we need
absolute we cannot give amnesty now I
want to build the wall we need the wall
and the border patrol ice they all want
the wall we stop the drugs we shore up
the border one of my first acts will be
to get all of the drug lords all of the
bad ones we have some bad bad people in
this country that have to go out we're
gonna get them out we're going to secure
the border
and once the border is secured at a
later date we'll make a determination as
to the rest but we have some bad Umbra's
here and we're gonna get him out mr.
trunk thank you
same question to you Secretary Clinton
basically why are you right mr. Trump is
wrong well as he was talking I was
thinking about a young girl I met here
in Las Vegas Carla who was very worried
that her parents might be deported
because she was born in this country but
they were not they work hard they do
everything they can to give her a good
life and you're right I don't want to
rip families apart I don't want to be
sending parents away from children I
don't want to see the deportation force
that Donald has talked about in action
in our country we have 11 million
undocumented people they have 4 million
American citizen children 15 million
people he said as recently as a few
weeks ago in Phoenix that every
undocumented person would be subject to
deportation now here's what that means
it means you would have to have a
massive law enforcement presence where
law enforcement officers would be going
school to school home to home business
to business
rounding up people who are undocumented
and we would then have to put them on
trains on buses to get them out of our
country I think that is a an idea that
is not in keeping with who we are as a
nation I think it's an idea that would
rip our country apart I have been for
border security for years I voted for
border security in the United States
Senate and my comprehensive immigration
reform plan of course includes border
security but I want to put our resources
where I think they're most needed
getting rid of any violent person
anybody who should be deported
we should deport them when it comes to
the wall that Donald talks about
building he went to Mexico he had a
meeting with the Mexican president
didn't even raise it he choked and then
got into a Twitter war because the
Mexican president said we're not paying
for that wall so I think we are both a
nation of immigrants and we are a nation
of laws and that
we can act accordingly and that's why
I'm introducing comprehensive
immigration reform within the first
hundred days with a path to citizenship
Thank You Secretary Clinton I want to
follow I think it's I should respond to
them first of all I had a very good
meeting with the President of Mexico
very nice man we will be doing very much
better with Mexico on trade deals
believe me the NAFTA deal signed by her
husband's one of the worst deals ever
made of any kind signed by anybody it's
a disaster Hillary Clinton wanted the
wall Hillary Clinton fought for the wall
in 2006 or there abouts now she never
gets anything done so naturally the wall
wasn't built but Hillary Clinton wanted
the wall I'd like to hear from Secretary
Clinton I voted for border security and
there are there are some limited places
where that was appropriate there also is
necessarily going to be new technology
and how best to deploy that but it is
clear when you look at what Donald has
been proposing he started his campaign
bashing immigrants calling Mexican
immigrants rapists and criminals and
drug dealers that he has a very
different view about what we should do
to deal with immigrants now what I am
also arguing is that bringing
undocumented immigrants out from the
shadows putting them into the formal
economy will be good because then
employers can't exploit them and
undercut Americans wages and Donald
knows a lot about this he used
undocumented labor to build the Trump
Tower
he underpaid undocumented workers and
when they complained he basically said
what a lot of employers do you complain
I'll get you deported I want to get
everybody out of the shadows get the
economy working and not let employers
like Donald exploit undocumented workers
which hurts them but also hurts American
workers that's a drop the president
obama has moved millions of people out
nobody knows about it nobody talks about
it but under Obama millions of people
have been moved out of this country
they've been deported cheers I want to
say that but that's
what's happened and that's what's
happened big league as far as moving
these people out and moving we either
have a country or we don't we're a
country of laws we either have a border
or we don't
now you can come back in and you can
become a citizen but it's very unfair we
have millions of people that did it the
right way they're online they're waiting
we're going to speed up the process big
league because it's very inefficient but
they're online and they're waiting to
become citizens very unfair that
somebody runs across the border becomes
a citizen under her plan you have open
borders you would have a disaster on
trade and you will have a disaster with
your open border what we don't say is
that President Obama has deported
millions and millions of people just the
way a Katara Clinton I will not have
open borders that is a will have secure
borders but we will also have reform and
this used to be a bipartisan issue
Ronald Reagan immigration reform and
George W Bush supported it as well
Secretary Clinton I want to clear up
your position on this issue because in a
speech you gave to a Brazilian bank for
which you were paid two hundred and
twenty-five thousand dollars we've
learned from the WikiLeaks that you said
this and I want to quote my dream is a
hemispheric common market with open
trade and open borders so thank you
that's Jenna that's the question please
quiet everybody is that your dream open
borders well if you went on to read the
rest of the sentence I was talking about
energy you know we trade more energy
with our neighbors than we trade with
the rest of the world combined and I do
want us to have a an electric grid an
energy system that crosses borders I
think that will be a great benefit to us
but you are very clearly quoting from
WikiLeaks and what's really important
about WikiLeaks is that the Russian
government has engaged in espionage
against Americans they have hacked
American websites American accounts of
private people of institutions then
have given that information to WikiLeaks
for the purpose of putting it on the
Internet this has come from the highest
levels of the Russian government clearly
from Putin himself in an effort as 17 of
our intelligence agencies have confirmed
to influence our election so I actually
think the most important question of
this evening Kris is finally will Donald
Trump admit and condemn that the
Russians are doing this and make it
clear that he will not have the help of
Putin in this election that he rejects
Russian espionage against Americans
which he actually encouraged in the past
those are the questions we need answered
we've never had anything like this
happen in any of our elections before
that was a great pivot of the fact that
she wants open borders okay hold on
folks because we could this is gonna end
up getting out of control let's try to
keep it quiet so for the candidates and
for the American people so just to
finish on the borders yes she wants open
borders people are going to pour into
our country people are going to come in
from Syria she wants five hundred and
fifty percent more people than Barack
Obama and he has thousands and thousands
of people they have no idea where they
come from and you see we are going to
stop radical Islamic terrorism in this
country she won't even mention the words
and neither will President Obama so I
just want to tell you she wants open
borders now we can talk about Putin I
don't know Putin he said nice things
about me if we got along well that would
be good if Russia and the United States
got along well and went after Isis that
would be good he has no respect for her
he has no respect for our president and
I'll tell you what we're in very serious
trouble because we have a country with
tremendous numbers of nuclear warheads
1,800 by the way where they expanded and
we didn't 1800 nuclear warheads and
she's playing chicken look from
everything I see has no respect for this
person well that's because he'd rather
have a puppet as president and okay
nope it's pretty clear it's pretty clear
you won't admit the Russians have
engaged in cyber attacks against the
United States of America that you
encouraged espionage against our people
that you are willing to spout the Putin
line sign up for his wish list break up
NATO do whatever he wants to do and that
you continue to get help from him
because he has a very clear favorite in
this race so I think that this is such
an unprecedented situation we've never
had a foreign government trying to
interfere in our election we have 17 17
intelligence agencies civilian and
military who have all concluded that
these espionage attacks these cyber
attacks come from the highest levels of
the Kremlin and they are designed to
influence our election I find that
deeply disturbing
I think it's Evan teen until it do you
doubt 17 agencies well then the military
and civilian intelligence professionals
who are sworn to protect us I find that
just because Putin has outsmarted her at
every step of the way some questions yes
and I would like to ask you this direct
question the top national security
officials of this country do believe
that Russia has been behind these hacks
even if you don't know for sure whether
they are do you condemn any interference
by Russia in the American election by
Russia or anybody else you condemn their
interference of course I condemn of
course I can I don't know Putin I have
no idea I never met and this is not my
best friend what if the United States
got along with
wouldn't be so bad let me tell you
potent has outsmarted her and Obama at
every single step of the way whether
it's Syria you name it missiles take a
look at the startup that they signed the
Russians have said according to many
many reports I can't believe they
allowed us to do this they create
warheads and we can't the Russians can't
believe it
she has been outsmarted by Putin and all
you have to do is look at the Middle
East they've taken over
we've spent six trillion dollars they've
taken over the Middle East
she has been outsmarted and outplayed
worse than anybody I've ever seen in any
government whatsoever we're a long way
away from their immigration but I'm
gonna let you finish this you got about
45 seconds and she always will be I find
it ironic that he's raising nuclear
weapons this is a person who has been
very Cavalier even casual about the use
of nuclear weapons he's advocated more
countries getting them Japan Korea even
Saudi Arabia he said well if we have
them why don't we use them which i think
is terrifying but here's the deal the
bottom line on nuclear weapons is that
when the president gives the order it
must be followed there's about four
minutes between the order being given
and the people responsible for launching
nuclear weapons to do so and that's why
ten people who have had that awesome
responsibility have come out and in an
unprecedented way said they would not
trust Donald Trump with the nuclear
codes or to have his finger on the
nuclear button I have 200 generals and
admirals 21 endorsing me 21
Congressional Medal of Honor recipients
as far as Japan and other countries we
are being ripped off by everybody in
there we're defending other countries we
are spending a fortune doing it they
have the bargain of the century all I
said is we have to renegotiate these
agreements because our country cannot
afford to defend Saudi Arabia Japan
Germany South Korea and many other
places we cannot continue to afford she
took that as some
career weapons look she's been proven to
be a liar on so many different ways this
is just another lie well I'm just
quoting you when there's no quote you're
not going to find a quote from a nuclear
nuclear competition in Asia you said you
know go ahead enjoy yourselves folks
that kind and defend yourself yourself
the United States has kept the peace
through our alliances Donald wants to
tear up our alliances I think it makes
the world safer and frankly it makes the
United States safer I would work with
our allies in Asia in Europe in the
Middle East and elsewhere that's the
only way we're going to know we're gonna
we are going to move on to the next
topic which is the economy and I hope we
handle that as well as we did
immigration you also have very different
ideas about how to get the economy
growing fast as Secretary Clinton in
your plan government plays a big role
you see more government spending more
entitlements more tax credits more tax
penalties mr. Trump you want to get
government out with lower taxes and less
regulation
we're going to drill down into this a
little bit more but in this overview
please explain to me why you believe
that your plan will create more jobs and
growth for this country and your
opponents plan will not in this round
you go for a secretary claim well I
think when the middle class thrives
America thrives and so my plan is based
on growing the economy giving
middle-class families many more
opportunities I want us to have the
biggest jobs program since World War two
jobs and infrastructure and advanced
manufacturing I think we can compete
with high wage countries and I believe
we should new jobs and clean energy not
only to fight climate change which is a
serious problem but to create new
opportunities and new businesses I want
us to do more to help small business
that's where 2/3 of the new jobs are
going to come from I want us to raise
the national minimum wage because people
who live in poverty should not who work
full time should not still be in poverty
and I
do want to make sure women get equal pay
for the work we do I feel strongly that
we have to have an education system that
starts with preschool and goes through
college that's why I want more technical
education in high schools and in
community colleges real apprenticeships
to prepare young people for the jobs of
the future
I want to make college debt-free and for
families making less than one hundred
and twenty five thousand dollars you
will not get a tuition bill from a
public college or university if the plan
that I worked on with Bernie Sanders is
enacted and we're going to work hard to
make sure that it is because we are
going to go where the money is most of
the gains in the last year's since the
Great Recession have gone to the very
top so we are going to have the wealthy
pay their fair share we're going to have
corporations make a contribution greater
than they are now to our country that is
a plan that has been analyzed by
independent experts which said that it
could produce 10 million new jobs by
contrast Donald's plan has been analyzed
to conclude it might lose three and a
half million jobs why because his whole
plan is to cut taxes to give the biggest
tax breaks ever to the wealthy and to
corporations adding 20 trillion dollars
to our death and causing the kind of
dislocation that we have seen before
because it truly will be trickle-down
economics on steroids so the plan I have
I think will actually produce greater
opportunities the plan he has will cost
us jobs and possibly lead to another
Great Recession secretary thank you mr.
Trump why will your plan create more
jobs and growth and Secretary Clinton
well first of all before I start on my
plan her plan is going to raise taxes
and even double you taxes her tax plan
is a disaster and she can say all she
wants about college tuition and I'm a
big proponent we're going to do a lot of
things for college tuition but the rest
of the public is going to be paying for
it we will have a massive massive tax
increase under Hillary Clinton's plan
but I'd like to start off where we left
because when I said Japan and Germany
and I'm not to single them out but South
Korea there's a very rich powerful
countries Saudi Arabia
nothing but money we protect Saudi
Arabia why aren't they paying she
immediately when she heard this I
questioned it and I questioned data
weren't the NATO questioned why aren't
they paying because they weren't paying
since I did this this was a year ago all
of a sudden they're paying and I've been
given a lot of a lot of credit for it
all of a sudden they're starting to pay
up they have to pay up we're protecting
people they have to pay up and I'm a big
fan of NATO but they have to pay up she
comes out and said we love our allies we
think our allies are great well it's
awfully hard to get them to pay up when
you have somebody saying we think how
great they are we have to tell Japan in
a very nice way we have to tell Germany
all of these countries South Korea we
have to say you have to help us out we
have during his regime during President
Obama's regime we've doubled our
national debt we're up to 20 trillion
dollars so my plan we're gonna
renegotiate traders we're gonna have a
lot of free trade we're gonna have free
trade more free trade that we have right
now but we have horrible deals our jobs
are being taken out by the deal that her
husband signed NAFTA one of the worst
deals ever heard their jobs are being
sucked out of our economy you look at
all of the places that I just left you
go to Pennsylvania you go to Ohio you go
to Florida you go to any of them you go
upstate New York our jobs have fled to
Mexico and other places we're bringing
our jobs back I am gonna renegotiate
NAFTA and if I can't make a great deal
then we're going to terminate NAFTA and
we're going to create new deals we're
going to have trade what we're going to
turn we're going to terminate it we're
gonna make a great trade deal and if we
can't we're going to do it we're going
to go a separate way because it has been
a disaster we're going to cut taxes
massively we're going to cut business
taxes massively they're going to start
hiring people we're going to bring the
two and a half trillion dollars that's
offshore back into the country we are
going to start the engine rolling again
because right now if our country is
dying at 1% GDP well let me translate
that if I can Chris because you can't
practice he's going to advocate for the
largest tax cuts we've ever seen three
times more than the tax cuts under the
Bush administration I have said
repeatedly throughout this campaign I
will not raise taxes on anyone making
and dollars or less I also will not add
a penny to the debt
I have costed out what I'm going to do
he will through his massive tax cuts add
20 trillion dollars to the debt well he
mentioned the debt we know how to get
control of the debt when my husband was
president we went from a 300 billion
dollar deficit to a 200 billion dollar
surplus and we were actually on the path
to eliminating the national debt when
President Obama came into office he
inherited the worst economic disaster
since the Great Depression he has cut
the deficit by two-thirds so yes one of
the ways you go after the debt one of
the ways you create jobs is by investing
in people so I do have investments
investments in new jobs investments in
education skill training and the
opportunities for people to get ahead
and stay ahead that's the kind of a
product attorney that will work cutting
taxes on the wealthy we've tried that so
it has not worked the way that it has
been trickling I want I want to pursue
your plan because in many ways it is
similar to the Obama stimulus plan in
2009 which has led to the slowest GDP
growth since 1949 correct thank you sir
you told me in July when we spoke that
the problem is that President Obama
didn't get to do enough in what he was
trying to do with this stimulus so is
your plan basically more even more of
the Obama stimulus well it's a
combination Chris and let me say that
when you inherit the level of economic
catastrophe that President Obama
inherited it was a real touch-and-go
situation I was in the Senate before I
became Secretary of State I've never
seen people as physically distraught as
the bush administration team was because
of what was happening to the economy I
personally believe that the steps that
President Obama took saved the economy
he doesn't get the credit he deserves
for taking some very hard positions but
it was a terrible recession so now we've
dug
selves out of it we're standing but
we're not yet running so what I am
proposing is that we invest from the
middle out and the ground up not to top
down that is not going to work that's
why what I have put forward doesn't add
a penny to the debt but it is the kind
of approach that will enable more people
to take those new jobs higher paying
jobs we're beginning to see some
increase in incomes and we certainly
have had a long string of increasing
jobs we've got to do more to get the
whole economy moving and that's what I
believe I will be able to do mr. Trump
even conservative economists who have
looked at your plans say that the
numbers don't add up that your idea and
you've talked about 25 million jobs
created four percent over ten years
growth is unrealistic and they say you
talk a lot about growing the energy
industry they say with oil prices as
well as they are right now that's
unrealistic as well your response so I
just left some high representatives of
India they're growing at 8% China is
growing at 7% and that for them is a
catastrophic alena low number we are
growing our last report came out and
it's right around the 1 percent level
and I think it's going down last week as
you know at the end of last week they
came out with an anemic jobs report
terrible jobs report in fact I said is
that the last jobs report before the
election because of it is I should win
easily
it was so bad the report was so bad look
our country is stagnant we've lost our
jobs we've lost our businesses we're not
making things anymore
relatively speaking our product is
pouring in from China pouring in from
Vietnam pouring in from all over the
world I've visited so many communities
this has been such an incredible
education for me Chris I've gotten to
know so many I've developed so many
friends over the last year and they cry
when they see what's happened I pass
factories that were thriving 20-25 years
ago and because of the bill that her
husband signed and she blessed a hundred
percent it is just horrible what's
happened to these people in these
communities
now she can say that her husband did
well but boy did they suffer as NAFTA
kicked in because it didn't really kick
in very much but it kicked in after they
left boy did they suffer that was one of
the worst things that's ever been signed
by our country now she wants to sign
trans-pacific partnership and she wants
it she lied when she said she didn't
call it the gold standard in one of the
debates she totally lied she did call it
the gold standard and they actually fact
checked and they said I was right I want
to give you a chance to briefly speak to
that that I want to give it to one so
bono care but go ahead well briefly
first let me let me say number one when
I saw the final agreement for TPP I said
I was against it it didn't meet my tests
I've had the same test does it create
jobs raise incomes and further our
national security I'm against it now
I'll be against it after the election
I'll be against it when I'm president
there's only one of us on this stage
who's actually shipped jobs to Mexico
because that's Donald he's shipped jobs
to 12 countries including Mexico but he
mentioned China and you know one of the
biggest problems we have with China is
the illegal dumping of steel and
aluminum into our markets I have fought
against that as a senator I've stood up
against it as Secretary of State
Donald has bought Chinese steel and
aluminum in fact the Trump Hotel right
here in Las Vegas was made with Chinese
steel so he goes around with crocodile
tears about how terrible it is but he
has given jobs to Chinese steel workers
not American steel we're drunk that's
the kind of is just not going to work
we're going to pull the country together
we're going to have trade agreements
that we enforce that's why I'm going to
have a trade prosecutor for the first
time in history and we're going to
enforce those agreements and we're going
to look for businesses that was by
buying American products I ask a simple
question she's been doing this for 30
years why the hell didn't you do it over
the last 15 20 years you were very much
involved excuse me
my turn you were very much involved in
every aspect of this country very much
and you do have experience I say the one
thing you have over me is experience but
it's bad experience because what you've
done has turned out badly for 30 years
you've been a position to hell
and if you say that I used to yell or I
use something else I make it impossible
for me to do that
I wouldn't mind the problem is you talk
but you don't get anything done Hillary
you don't just like when you ran the
State Department six billion dollars was
missing how do you miss six billion
dollars you ran the State Department six
billion dollars was either stolen they
don't know it's gone six billion dollars
if you become president this country is
going to be in some mess believe me well
first of all what he just said about the
State Department is not only untrue it's
been debunked numerous times but I think
it's really an important issue he raised
the 30 years of experience so let me
just talk briefly about that you know
back in the 1970s I work for the
Children's Defense Fund and I was taking
on discrimination against African
American kids and schools he was getting
sued by the Justice Department for
racial discrimination in his apartment
buildings in the 1980s I was working to
reform the schools in Arkansas he was
borrowing fourteen million dollars from
his father to start his businesses in
the 1990s I went to Beijing and I said
women's rights are human rights he
insulted a former Miss Universe alicia
machado called her a an eating machine
and on the day when I was in the
Situation Room monitoring the raid that
brought Osama bin Laden to justice he
was hosting the Celebrity Apprentice so
I'm happy to compare my 30 years of
experience what I've done for this
country trying to help in every way I
could especially kids and families get
ahead and stay ahead with your 30 years
and I'll let the American people make
that decision well I think I did a much
better job I built a massive company a
great company some of the greatest
assets and the only anywhere in the
world worth many many billions of
dollars I started with a 1 million
dollar loan I agree with that it's a 1
million dollar loan but I built a
phenomenal company and if we could run
our country the way I've run my company
we would have a country that you would
be so proud of you would even be proud
of it and frankly
when you look at her real record take a
look at Syria take a look at the
migration take a look at Libya take a
look at Iraq
she gave us Isis because her and Obama
created this huge vacuum and a small
group came out of that huge vacuum
because when they that we should have
never been in Iraq but once we were
there we should have never got out the
way they wanted to get out
she gave us Isis assures you are sitting
there and what happened is now Isis is
in 32 countries and now I listen how
she's gonna get rid of Isis she's gonna
get rid of nobody alright we are gonna
get to foreign hotspots in a few moments
but the next segment is fitness to be
President of the United States mr. Trump
at the last debate you said your talk
about grabbing women was just that talk
and that you'd never actually done it
and since then as we all know nine women
have come forward and said that you
either grope them or kiss them without
their consent why would so many
different women from so many different
circumstances over so many different
years why would they all in this last
couple of weeks make up you've denied us
why would they all make up these stories
and since this is a question for both of
you
Secretary Clinton mr. Trump says what
your husband did and that you defended
was even worse mr. Trump you go first
well first of all those stories have
been largely debunked those people I
don't know those people I have a feeling
how they came I believe it was her
campaign that did it just like if you
look at what came out today or on the
clips where I was wondering what
happened with my rally in Chicago and
other rallies where we had such violence
she's the one in Obama that caused the
violence they hired people they paid
them $1500 and they're on tape saying be
violent cause fights do bad things I
would say the only way because those
stories are all totally false I have to
say that and I didn't even apologize to
my wife who's sitting right here because
I didn't do anything
I didn't know any of these women I
didn't see these women these women the
woman on the plane the woman I think
they want
the fame or her campaign did it and I
think it's her campaign because what I
saw what they did which is a criminal
act by the way where they're telling
people to go out and start fistfights
and start violence and I'll tell you
what in particular in Chicago people
were hurt and people could have been
killed in that riot and that was now all
on tape started by her i believe chris
that she got these people to step
forward if it wasn't they get their ten
minutes of fame but they were all
totally it was all fiction it was lies
and it was fiction well it's not
rhetorical I'm at the last debate we
heard Donald talking about what he did
to women and after that a number of
women have come forward saying that's
exactly what he did to them
now what was his response well he held a
number of big rallies where he said that
he could not possibly have done those
things to those women because they were
not attractive enough for he did not say
that in fact he went on to say or to
impertinent serve her two minutes two
minutes he went on to say look at her I
don't think so
about another woman he said that
wouldn't be my first choice
he attacked the woman reporter writing
the story called her disgusting as he
has called a number of women during this
campaign you know Donald thinks
belittling women makes him bigger he
goes after their dignity their
self-worth and I don't think there is a
woman anywhere who doesn't know what
that feels like
so we now know what Donald thinks and
what he says and how he acts toward
women that's who
Donald is I think it's really up to all
of us to demonstrate who we are and who
our country is and to stand up and be
very clear about what we expect from our
next president how we want to bring our
country together
where we don't want to have the kind of
pitting of people one against the other
where instead we celebrate our diversity
we lift people up and we make our
country even greater America is great
because America is good and it really is
up to all of us
to make that true now and in the future
and particularly for our children and
our grandchildren mr. Trump nobody has
more respect for women than I do nobody
nobody has more raise everybody and
frankly those sewers have been largely
debunked and I really want to just talk
about something slightly different she
mentions this which is all fiction or
fictionalized probably or possibly
started by her and her very sleazy
campaign but I will tell you what isn't
fictionalized or her emails where she
destroyed 33,000 emails criminally
criminally after getting a subpoena from
the United States Congress what happened
to the FBI I don't know we have a great
general four-star general today you read
it in all the papers going to
potentially serve five years in jail for
lying to the FBI one lie she's lied
hundreds of times to the people to
Congress and to the to the FBI he's
going to probably go to jail this is a
four-star general and she gets away with
it and she can run for the presidency of
the United States that's really what you
should be talking about not fiction
where somebody wants Fame or where they
come out of her crooked campaign
Secretary Clinton well every time Donald
has pushed on something which is
obviously uncomfortable like what these
women are saying he immediately goes to
denying responsibility and it's not just
about women he never apologizes or says
he's sorry for anything so we know what
he
said and what he's done to women but he
also went after a disabled reporter
mocked and mimicked him on national
television
he went after mr. and mrs. Kahn the
parents of a young man who died serving
our country a gold star family because
of their religion
he went after John McCain a prisoner of
war said he prefers people who aren't
captured he went after a federal judge
born in Indiana but who Donald said
couldn't be trusted to try the fraud and
racketeering case against Trump
University because his parents were
Mexican so it's not one thing this is a
pattern a pattern of divisive nough
severe II dark and in many ways
dangerous vision of our country where he
incites violence where he applauds
people who are pushing and pulling and
punching at his rallies that is not who
America is and I hope that as we move in
the last weeks of this campaign more and
more people will understand what's at
stake in this election it really does
come down to what kind of country we are
going to have so sad when she talks
about violence at my rallies and she
caused the violence on tape the other
things are false but honestly I'd love
to talk about getting rid of Isis and
I'd love to talk about other things okay
but those other charges as she knows
there are fullness in this bucket about
fitness to be President there's been a
lot of developments over the last 10
days as the last debate I'd like to ask
you about about them these are questions
that the American people have Secretary
Clinton during year 2009 Senate
confirmation hearing you promised to
avoid even the appearance of a conflict
of interest with your dealing with the
Clinton Foundation while you were
Secretary of State but email show the
donors got special access to you those
seeking grants for Haiti relief were
considered separately from non donors
and some of those donors got contract
government contracts taxpayer money can
you really say that you kept your pledge
to that
a committee and why isn't what happened
and what went on between you and the
Clinton Foundation why isn't it what mr.
Trump calls hate apply well everything I
did as Secretary of State was in
furtherance of our country's interests
and our values the State Department has
said that I think that's been proven but
I am happy
in fact I am thrilled to talk about the
Clinton Foundation because it is a
world-renowned charity and I am so proud
of the work that it does you know I
could talk for the rest of the debate I
know I don't have the time to do that
but just briefly the Clinton Foundation
made it possible for 11 million people
around the world with HIV AIDS to afford
treatment and that's about half of all
the people in the world who are getting
treatment in partnership with the
American Health Association we have made
environments and schools healthier
respectfully this is this is an open
discussion question what to pay-for-play
saudi arabia giving 25 million dollars
guitar all of these countries you talk
about women and women's rights so these
are people that push gays offices off
buildings these are people that kill
women and treat women horribly and yet
you take their money so I'd like to ask
you right now why don't you give back
the money that you've taken from certain
countries that treat certain groups of
people so horribly why don't you give
back the money I think it would be a
great gesture well because she takes a
tremendous amount of money and you take
a look at the people of Haiti I was at a
little Haiti the other day in Florida
and I want to tell you they hate the
Clintons because what's happened in
Haiti with the Clinton Foundation is a
disgrace and you know it and they know
it and everybody knows secretary very
quickly we at the Clinton Foundation
spend 90% 90% of all the money that is
donated on behalf of
of people around the world and in our
own country I'm very proud of that we
have the highest rating from the
watchdog's that follow foundations and
I'd be happy to compare what we do with
the Trump Foundation which took money
from other people and bought a six foot
portrait of Donald I mean who does that
it just was astonishing but when it
comes to Haiti Haiti is the poorest
country in our hemisphere the earthquake
and the Hurricanes it has devastated
Haiti bill and I have been involved in
trying to help Haiti for many years the
Clinton Foundation raised thirty million
dollars to help Haiti after the
catastrophic earthquake and all of the
terrible problems the people there had
we've done things to help small
businesses agriculture and so much else
and we're gonna keep working to help
Haiti because it's an important part of
the America want to know they don't want
to help them anymore
I'd like to mention one thing Trump
Foundation small foundation people
contribute I contribute the money goes a
hundred percent 100 percent goes to
differentiate ease including a lot of
military I don't get anything I don't
buy boats I don't buy planes what
happens wasn't some of the money used to
settle your lawsuit sir no it was we put
up the American flag and that's it they
put up the American flag we fought for
the right in Palm Beach to put up the
America there was a penalty that was
imposed by Palm Beach County Fisher
House where they build houses the money
that you're talking about went to Fisher
has where they build houses for veterans
and disabled I want to get into one
there's no way we can know whether any
of that is true because he hasn't
released his tax returns he is the first
candidate ever to run for president in
the last 40-plus years who has not
released his tax returns so everything
he says about charity or anything else
we can't prove it you can look at our
tax returns we've got them all out there
but what is really troubling is that we
learned in the last debate he has not
paid a penny in federal income tax and
we were talking about immigrants a few
minutes ago Chris you know half of all
immigrants on
too many immigrants in our country
actually pay federal income tax so we
have undocumented immigrants in America
who are paying more federal income tax
than a billionaire iy5 yw' let me just
tell you verse on it we're entitled
because of the laws that people like her
pass to take massive amounts of
depreciation and other charges that we
do it and all of her donors just about
all of them I know Buffett took hundreds
of millions of dollars
Soros George Soros took hundreds of
millions of dollars let me just explain
most of her donors mr. Trump done the
same thing okay folks we know Hillary
what you should have done you should
have changed the law when you were a
United States Senator because your
donors and your special interests are
doing the same thing as I do except even
more so you change a little bit you
won't change the law because you take in
so much money I mean i sat in my
apartment today in a very beautiful
hotel down the street known as pate with
Chinese state but I will tell you i sat
there i sat there watching ad after ad
after ad fall said all paid for by your
friends on Wall Street that gave so much
money because they know you're going to
protect them and frankly you should have
joined this if you don't like what I did
you should have changed the law mr.
Trump I want to ask you about one last
question in this topic you have been
warning at rallies recently that this
election is rigged and that Hillary
Clinton is in the process of trying to
steal it from you your running mate
governor pence pledged on Sunday that he
and you his words will absolutely accept
the result of this election today your
daughter Ivanka said the same thing I
want to ask you here on this stage
tonight do you make the same commitment
that you will absolutely sir that you
will absolutely accept the result of
this election I will look at it at the
time I'm not looking at anything now
I'll look at it at the time what I've
seen what I've seen is so bad
first of all the media is so dishonest
and so corrupt and the pile on is so
amazing the New York Times they actually
wrote an article
that they don't even care it's so
dishonest and they've poisoned the minds
of the voters but unfortunately for them
I think the voters are seeing through it
I think they're gonna see through it
we'll find out on November 8th but I
think they're gonna see that sir there's
a look excuse me because if you look at
your voter rolls you will see millions
of people that are registered to vote
Millions this isn't coming from me this
is coming from Pew report and other
places millions of people that are
registered to vote that shouldn't be
registered to vote so let me just give
you one other things I talked about the
corrupt media I talked about the
millions of people tell you one other
thing she shouldn't be allowed to run
it's crooked
she's she's guilty of a very very
serious crime she should not be allowed
to run and just in that respect I say
it's rigged because she should never
trust she should never have been allowed
to run for the presidency based on what
she did with emails and so many other
things sir there is a tradition in this
country in fact one of the prize of this
country is the peaceful transition of
power and that no matter how hard what a
campaign is that at the end of the
campaign that the loser concedes to the
winner not saying that you're
necessarily going to be the loser or the
winner but that the loser concedes to
the winner and that the country comes
together in part for the good of the
country are you saying you're not
prepared now two countries that I will
tell you at the time I'll keep you in
suspense well let me respond to that
because that's horrifying you know every
time Donald thinks things are not going
in his direction he claims whatever it
is is rigged against him the FBI
conducted a year-long investigation into
my emails they concluded there was no
case he said the FBI was rigged
he lost the Iowa caucus he lost the
Wisconsin primary he said the Republican
primary was rigged against him then
Trump University gets sued for fraud and
racketeering he claims the court system
and the federal judge is rigged against
him there was even a time when he didn't
get an Emmy for his TV program three
years in a row and he started tweet
that the Emmys were rigged shoulda
gotten this this is a mindset this is
this is how Donald thinks and it's funny
but it's also really troubling okay oh
that is not the way our democracy works
we've been around for 240 years we've
had free and fair elections we've
accepted the outcomes when we may not
have liked them and that is what must be
expected of anyone standing on a debate
stage during a general election you know
President Obama said the other day when
you're whining hold on it just shows you
you're not up to doing the job and let's
you know let's be clear about what he is
saying and what that means
he is denigrating he's talking down our
democracy and I for one am appalled that
somebody who is the nominee of one of
our two major parties would take that
kind of position I think what the FBI
did and what the Department of Justice
did including meeting with her husband
the Attorney General in the back of an
airplane on the tarmac in Arizona I
think it's disgraceful I think it's a
disgrace I think we've never had a
situation so flawless this doesn't do
any good for anyone let's please
continue the debate and let's move on to
the subject of foreign hot spots the
Iraqi offensive to take back Mosul has
begun if they are successful in pushing
Isis out of that city and out of all of
Iraq the question then becomes what
happens the day after and that's
something that whichever of you ends up
whoever of you ends up as president is
going to have to confront
will you put US troops into that vacuum
to make sure that Isis doesn't come back
or isn't replaced by something even
worse Secretary Clinton you go first in
this segment you have two minutes well I
am encouraged that there is an effort
led by the Iraqi army supported by
Kurdish forces and also given the help
and advice from the number of Special
Forces and other Americans on the ground
but
will not support putting American
soldiers into Iraq as an occupying force
I don't think that is in our interests
and I don't think that would be smart to
do in fact Chris I think that would be a
big red flag waving for Isis to
reconstitute itself the goal here is to
take back Mosul it's going to be a hard
fight I've got no illusions about that
and then continue to press into Syria to
begin to take back and move on Raqqa
which is the ISIS headquarters I am
hopeful that the hard work that American
military advisors have done will pay off
and that we will see a real really
successful military operation but we
know we've got lots of work to do Syria
will remain a hotbed of terrorism as
long as the civil war aided and abetted
by the Iranians and the Russians
continue so I have said look we need to
keep our eye on Isis that's why I want
to have an intelligence surge that
protects us here at home why we have to
go after them from the air on the ground
online why we have to make sure here at
home we don't let terrorists buy weapons
if you're too dangerous to fly you're
too dangerous to buy a gun and I'm going
to continue to push for a no-fly zone
and safe havens within Syria not only to
help protect the Syrians and prevent the
constant outflow of refugees but to
frankly gain some leverage on both the
Syrian government and the Russians so
that perhaps we can have the kind of
serious negotiation necessary to bring
the conflict to an end and go forward on
a political track mr. Trump same
question if we are able to push Isis out
of Mosul and out of Iraq we'll would you
be willing to put US troops in there to
prevent their return or something else
let me tell you also so said we had
Mosul but when she left when she took
everybody out
we lost Mosul now we're fighting again
to get Mosul problem with Mosul and what
they wanted to do is they wanted to get
the leaders of Isis who they felt were
in Mosul about three months ago I
started reading
that they want to get the leaders and
they're good they're going to attack
also whatever happened to the element of
surprise okay we announced we're going
after most I've been reading about going
after muscle now for about how long is
it held here three months these people
have all left they've all left the
element of surprise Douglas MacArthur
George Patton spinning in their graves
when they see the stupidity of our
country so we're now fighting for muscle
that we had or all she had to do is stay
there now we're going into getting but
you know who the big winner in Mosul is
gonna be after we eventually get it and
the only reason they did it is because
she's running for the office of
president if they want to look tough
they want to look good he violated the
red line in the sand and he made so many
mistakes make all mistakes that's why we
have the Great Migration but she wanted
to look good for the election so they're
going in but who's gonna get mo so
really will take Mosul eventually by the
way if you look at what's happening much
tougher than they thought much much
tougher much more dangerous going to be
more deaths than they thought but the
leaders that we wanted to get are all
gone because they're smart they said
what do we need this for so Mosul is
going to be a wonderful thing and Iran
should write us a letter of thank you
just like they really stupid
these stupidest dealer volta a deal
that's going to give Iran absolutely
nuclear weapons Iran should write us yet
another letter saying thank you very
much because Iran as I said many years
ago Iran is taking over Iraq something
they've wanted to do forever but we've
made it so easy for them so we're now
going to take Mosul and you know who's
gonna be the beneficiary Iran are they
making I mean they are outsmarting I
look you're not there you might be
involved in that decision but you were
there when you took everybody out of
Mosul and out of Iraq you shouldn't have
been in Iraq but you did vote for it you
shouldn't have been in Iraq but once you
were in Iraq you should have never left
the way the point is you're terminus is
going to be Iran well you know once
again Donald is implying that he didn't
support the invasion of Iraq I said it
was a mistake
that said that years ago he has
consistently denied what is a very clear
fact that before the invasion he
supported it and you know I just want
everybody to go google it Google Donald
Trump Iraq and you will see the dozens
of sources which verify that he was for
the invasion of Iraq wrong and you can
actually hear the audio of him saying
that now why does that matter well it
matters because he has not told the
truth
about that position I guess he believes
it makes him look better now to contrast
with me because I did vote for it but
what's really important here is to
understand all the interplay Mosul is a
sunni city Mosul is on the border of
Syria and yes we do need to go after
Baghdad II and just like we went after
bin Laden while you were doing Celebrity
Apprentice and we brought him to justice
we need to go after the leadership but
we need to get rid of them get rid of
their fighters their estimated several
thousand fighters in Mosul they've been
digging underground they've been
prepared to defend it's going to be
tough fighting but I think we can take
back Mosul and then we can move on into
Syria and take back Raqqa this is what
we have to do I'm I'm just amazed that
he seems to think that the Iraqi
government and our allies and everybody
else launched the attack on Mosul to
help me in this election but that's how
Donald thinks you know he always I mean
looking for some Chris we proved that
every time you are the one that's infant
you know WikiLeaks just actually came
out John Podesta said some horrible
things about you and boy was he right he
said some beauties and you know Bernie
Sanders he said you have bad judgment
you do and if you think that going into
Mosul after we let the world know we're
going in and all
the people that we really wanted the
leaders they're all gone if you think
that was good than you do now John
Podesta said you have terrible instincts
Bernie Sanders said you have bad
judgment I agree with both well you
should ask Bernie Sanders who he's
supporting for president and he has said
which has pain for me around the country
you are the most dangerous person to run
for president in the modern history of
America I think he's right let's turn to
Aleppo mr. Trump in the last debate you
were both asked about the situation in
the Syrian city of Aleppo and I want to
follow up on that because you said
several things in that debate which were
not true sir you said that Aleppo has
basically fallen in fact there in fact
there was a catastrophe it is a
catastrophe that there are have you seen
it have you seen it sir you seemed
what's happened to 11 I finished my ok
so it hasn't fallen take a look at it
well there are a quarter of a million
people still living there and being
slaughtered it's right who also they are
being slaughtered yeah because of bad
decisions if I may just finish here and
you also said that Isis that Syria and
Russia are busy fighting Isis in fact
they have been the ones who've been
bombing and shelling eastern Aleppo and
they just announced a humanitarian pause
in effect admitting that they have been
bombing and shelling Aleppo would you
like to clear that up as well
Aleppo is a disaster it's a humanitarian
nightmare but it has fallen from the
staff from any standpoint I mean what do
you need a signed document take a look
at Aleppo it is so sad when you see
what's happened and a lot of this is
because of Hillary Clinton because
what's happened is by fighting Assad who
turned out to be a lot tougher than she
thought and now she's gonna say oh he
loves Assad
she's just he's just much tougher and
much smarter than her and Obama and
everyone thought he was gone two years
ago three years ago he lined he aligned
with Russia he now also aligned with
Iran who we made very powerful he gave
them a hundred and fifty billion dollars
back
we give them 1.7 billion in cash
I mean cash bundles of cash as big as a
stage we gave them 1.7 billion dollars
now they have lined he has aligned with
Russia and with Iran they don't want
Isis but they have other things because
we're backing we're backing rebels we
don't know who the rebels are we're
giving them lots of money lots of
everything we don't know who the rebels
are and when and if and it's not gonna
happen because you have Russia and you
have Iran now but if they ever did
overthrow Assad you might end up with as
bad as the Saudis
he's a bad guy but you may very well end
up with worse than a son if she did
nothing we'd be in much better shape and
this is what's caused the great
migration where she's taken in tens of
thousands of Syrian refugees who
probably in many cases not probably who
are definitely in many cases Isis
aligned and we now have them in our
country and way do you see where there's
going to be the great Trojan horse and
way did you see what happens in the
coming years lot's of luck Hillary
thanks a lot for doing a great job
Secretary Clinton you have talked about
and in the last debate and again today
that you would impose a no-fly zone to
try to protect the people of Aleppo and
to stop the killing there president
Obama has refused to do that because he
fears it's going to draw us closer or
deeper into the conflict and General
Joseph Dunford the chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff says you impose a no-fly
zone chances are you're going to get
into a war his words with Syria and and
Russia so the question I have is if you
impose a no-fly zone first of all how do
you respond to their concerns secondly
if you impose a no-fly zone and a
Russian plane violates that does
President Clinton shoot that plane down
well Chris first of all I think a no-fly
zone could save lives and could hasten
the end of the conflict I am well aware
of the really legitimate concerns that
you have expressed from both the
president and the general this would not
be done just on the first day this would
take a lot of negotiation and we'd also
making it clear to the Russians and the
Syrians that our purpose here was to
provide safe zones on the ground we've
had millions of people leave Syria and
those millions of people inside Syria
who've been dislocated so I think we
could strike a deal and make it very
clear to the Russians and the Syrians
that this was something that we believe
was in the best interests of the people
on the ground in Syria it would help us
with our fight against Isis but I want
to respond to what Donald said about
refugees he's made these claims
repeatedly I am NOT going to let anyone
into this country who is not vetted who
we do not have confidence in but I am
NOT going to slam the door on women and
children I that picture of that little
four-year-old boy in Aleppo with the
blood coming down his face while he sat
in an ambulance is haunting and so we
are going to do very careful thorough
vetting that does not solve our internal
challenges with Isis and our need to
stop radicalization to work with
American Muslim communities who are on
the front lines to identify and prevent
attacks in fact the killer of the dozens
of people at the nightclub in Orlando
the pulse nightclub was born in Queens
the same place Donald was born so let's
be clear about what the threat is and
how we are best going to be able to meet
it and yes some of that threat emanates
from over in Syria and Iraq and we've
got to keep fighting and I will defeat
Isis and some of it is we have to up our
game and be much smarter here I want to
get into our final segment but I just
have to it so ridiculous what you she
will defeat Isis we should have never
let Isis happen in the first place and
right now they're in 32 countries now
wait one second they had a cease fire
three weeks ago a cease fire United
States Russia Syria and during the
ceasefire Russia took over vast swatches
of land and then they said we don't want
the ceasefire any more we are so
outplayed on missiles on ceasefires they
are outplayed that she wasn't there I
assume she had nothing to do with it
our country is so outplayed by Putin and
Assad and by the way and by Iran nobody
can believe how stupid our leadership is
mr. Secretary Clinton no I we need to
move on to our final segment and that is
the national debt which has not been
discussed until tonight our national
debt is a share of the economy our GDP
is now 77 percent that's the highest
since just after World War two but the
nonpartisan committee for a responsible
federal budget says Secretary Clinton
under your plan debt would rise to 86
percent of GDP over the next ten years
mr. Trump under your plan they say would
rise to a hundred and five percent of
GDP over the next ten years question is
why are both of you ignoring this
problem mr. Trump you go first well I
say they're wrong because I'm going to
create tremendous jobs and we're
bringing GDP from really 1% which is
what it is now and if she got in it'll
be less than zero but we're bringing it
from one percent up to four percent and
I actually think we can go higher than
four percent I think you can go to five
or six percent and if we do you don't
have to bother asking your question
because we have a tremendous machine we
will have created a tremendous economic
machine once again to do that we're
taking back jobs we're not going to let
our companies be rated by other
countries where we lose all our jobs we
don't make our product anymore
that's very sad but I'm going to create
a the kind of a country that we were
from the standpoint of industry we used
to be there we've given it up we've
become very very sloppy we've had people
that are political hacks making the
biggest deals and there were bigger than
companies you take these big companies
these trade deals are far bigger than
these companies and yet we don't use our
great leaders many of whom back me and
many of whom back Hillary I must say but
we don't use those people those are the
people these are the greatest
negotiators in the world we have the
greatest business people in the world we
have to use them to negotiate our trade
deals we use political hacks we use
people that get the position because
they gave they made it
Payne contribution and their dealing
with China and people that are very much
smarter than they are so we have to use
our great people but for that being said
we will create an economic machine the
likes of which we haven't seen in many
decades and people Kris will again go
back to work and they'll make a lot of
money and we'll have companies that will
grow and expand and start from new
Secretary Clinton well first when I when
I hear Donald talk like that and know
that his slogan is make America great
again I wonder when he thought America
was great and before he rushes and says
you know before you and President Obama
were there I think it's important to
recognize that he has been criticizing
our government for decades you know back
in 1987 he took out a $100,000 ad in the
New York Times
during the time when President Reagan
was president and basically said exactly
what he just said now that we were the
laughingstock of the world he was
criticizing President Reagan this is the
way Donald thinks about himself puts
himself into you know the middle and
says you know I alone can fix it as he
said on the convention stage but if you
look at the debt which is the issue you
asked about Chris I pay for everything
I'm proposing I do not add a penny to
the national debt I take that very
seriously because I do think it's one of
the issues we've got to come to grips
with so when I talk about how we're
gonna pay for education how we're going
to invest in infrastructure how we're
going to get the cost of prescription
drugs down and a lot of the other issues
that people talk to me about all the
time I've made it very clear we are
going where the money is we are going to
ask the wealthy and corporations to pay
their fair share and there is no
evidence whatsoever that that will slow
down or diminish our growth in fact I
think just the opposite we'll have what
economists call middle outgrowth we've
got to get back to rebuilding the middle
class the
families of America that's where growth
will come from that's why I want to
invest in you I want to invest in your
family and I think that's the smartest
way to grow the economy to make the
economy fairer and we just have a big
disagreement about this it may be
because of our experiences you know he
started off with his dad as a
millionaire businessman we've heard this
before I think it's you know it's a
difference that affects how we see the
world and what we want to do with the
economy at the time Thank You Hilary
could I just respond what not well no
because Ronald Reagan very strongly on
trade I disagreed with him we should
have been much tougher on trade even
then I've been waiting four years no cop
does it right and frankly now we're
gonna do it right all right I the one
last area I want to get into with you in
this debate is the fact that the biggest
driver of our debt is entitlements which
is 60 percent of all federal spending
now the committee for federal
responsible federal budget has looked at
both of your plans and they say neither
of you has a a serious plan that is
going to solve the fact that that
Medicare is going to run out of money in
the 2020s Social Security is gonna run
out of money in the 2030s and at that
time recipients are going to take huge
cuts in their benefits so in effect the
final question I want to ask you in this
regard is and let me start with you mr.
Trump would president from make a deal
to save Medicare and Social Security
that included both tax increases and
benefit cuts in effect a grand bargain
on entitlements I'm cutting taxes we're
going to grow the economy it's going to
grow at a record rate that's not it's
going to totally help you and one thing
we have to do repeal and replace the
disaster known as Obamacare it's
destroying our country it's destroying
our businesses our small business and
our big businesses we have to repeal and
replace Obamacare you take a look at the
kind of numbers that that will cost us
in the year 17 it is a disaster
if we don't repeal and replace now it's
probably going to die of its own weight
what Obamacare has to go it's the
premiums are going up 60 70 80 % next
year they're going to go up over a
hundred percent and I'm really glad that
the premiums have started at least the
people see what's happening because she
wants to keep Obamacare and she wants to
make it even worse and it can't get any
worse bad health care at the most
expensive price we have to repeal and
replace Obamacare and Secretary Clinton
same question because at this point
Social Security and Medicare are going
to run out the trust funds are going to
run out of money will you as president
entertain will you consider a a grand
bargain a deal that includes both tax
increases and benefit cuts to try to
save both programs well Chris I am on
record as saying that we need to put
more money into Social Security trust
fund that's part of my commitment to
raise taxes on the wealthy my Social
Security payroll contribution will go up
as well Donald's assuming he can't
figure out how to get out of it but what
we want to do is to replenish the such a
mess we want fun by making sure that we
have sufficient resources and that will
come from either raising the cap and or
finding other ways to get more money
into it I will not cut benefits
I want to enhance benefits for
low-income workers and for women who
have been disadvantaged by the current
Social Security system but what Donald
is proposing with these massive tax cuts
will result in a 20 trillion dollar
additional national debt that will have
dire consequences for Social Security
and Medicare and I'll say something
about the affordable care act which he
wants to repeal the Affordable Care Act
extended the solvency of the Medicare
trust fund so if he repeals it our
Medicare problem gets worse what we need
to do is go how's your disagree
long-term health care drivers we've got
to get costs down increase value
emphasize wellness I have a plan for
doing that and I think that we will be
able to get entitlement spending under
control by with more resources as a
smarter decision this is the final time
probably to both of your delight that
you're going to be on stage together in
this campaign I would like to end it on
a positive note you had not agreed to
closing statements but it seems to be in
a funny way that might make it more
interesting because you haven't prepared
closing statements so I'd like you each
to take it we're gonna put a clock up a
minute as the final question in the
final debate to tell the American people
why they should elect you to be the next
president this is another new mini
segment Secretary Clinton it's your turn
to go first
well I would like to say to everyone
watching tonight that I'm reaching out
to all Americans Democrats Republicans
and independents because we need
everybody to help make our country what
it should be to grow the economy to make
it fairer to make it work for everyone
we need your talents your skills your
commitment your energy your ambition you
know I've been privileged to see the
presidency up close and I know the
awesome responsibility of protecting our
country and the incredible opportunity
of working to try to make life better
for all of you I have made the cause of
Children and Families really my life's
work that's what my mission will be in
the presidency I will stand up for
families against powerful interests
against corporations I will do
everything that I can to make sure that
you have good jobs with rising incomes
that your kids have good education from
preschool through college I hope you
will give me a chance to serve as your
president Secretary Clinton thank you
mr. Trump she's raising the money from
the people she wants to control doesn't
work that way
but when I started this campaign I
started it very strongly it's called
make America great again we're going to
make America great we have a depleted
military it has to be helped
has to be fixed with the greatest people
on earth in our military we don't take
care of our veterans we take care of
illegal immigrants people that come into
the country illegally better than we
take care of our vets that can't happen
our policemen and women are disrespected
we need law and order but we need
justice to our inner cities are a
disaster you get shot walking to the
store they have no education they have
no jobs I will do more for
african-americans and Latinos than she
can ever do in ten lifetimes all she's
done is
talk to the african-americans and to the
Latinos but they get the vote and then
they come back they say we'll see you in
four years we are going to make America
strong again and we are going to make
America great again and it has to start
now we cannot take four more years of
Barack Obama and that's what you get
when you get her thank you both
Secretary Clinton hold on just a moment
folks Secretary Clinton mr. Trump I want
to thank you both for participating in
all three of these debates that brings
to an end this year's debate sponsored
by the Commission on Presidential
Debates we want to thank the University
of Nevada Las Vegas and its students for
having us now the decision is up to you
while millions have already voted
Election Day November 8th is just 20
days away one thing everyone here can
agree on we hope you will go vote it is
one of the honors and obligations of
living in this great country thank you
and good night
well it was billed as the final debates
but there might have been two debates
here tonight there was the first 30
minutes that could almost be described
as subdued then there was the next hour
not so subdued this is a Lester Holt
along with Chuck Todd Savannah Guthrie
Guthrie Tom Brokaw as we began to
discuss what just happened there
especially in the last hour of the
debate Chuck look overall this was the
closest thing we had to a normal debate
okay
they there was there was issue questions
there was issued back in for so there
was there was moments there where it
almost felt like a normal presidential
election and the first 30 minutes in in
many ways if you are a Republican
running down the ballot you were
thrilled because it was the Supreme
Court and it was sort of the putting the
stakes of why this is important for
Republicans to get out the vote so if
you're a down ballot Republican you were
really leave that Trump didn't didn't
have a bad first 30mins he had a pretty
good first 30 minutes but I have to tell
you throughout this fake flurry Clinton
substantively every you know had
substance in every answer hand sort of
detailed policy proposals that she would
talk about he would answer every
question ten ten percent of the answer
would sound good in the moment I think
it's going to not go over well with the
fact checkers and it's not gonna play
well the next day because he would
almost say a pretty good line and then
repeat it over and over again and he
didn't seem to have a lot of substance
so I think it might look good and feel
good in the moment and it may not
survive forehand Sabathia day and
Savannah one of the more memorable lines
was that nasty woman that we heard near
the end it was mean she was in the
middle of an answer he interjected he
leans into the microphone and says twice
such a nasty woman such a nasty woman
and I think that will be a moment that
people look back at this debate I mean
look if you don't like Hillary Clinton
if you were in Donald Trump's base you
were probably saying amen to the TV and
cheering right then but this is a
candidate
who has a deficit with women who needs
Republican moderate women to come over
into his corner and it just it was so
striking to see him actually go there
it's not a substant in by the way in a
weird quit of all questions do to do it
it was like on Social Security and
Medicare what do you say it was a
bizarre energy there was another moment
this debate people will be talking about
and we had for the last week and a half
or so her Donald Trump talked about the
legitimacy of the election voter fraud
the question was put to him about
whether he would accept the outcome not
the first time this question has been
asked and let me play how we put a
couple of those moments together let's
play it and then we'll talk about do you
make the same commitment that you will
absolutely sir that you will absolutely
accept the result of this election I
will look at it at the time I'm not
looking at anything now I look at it at
the time are you saying you're not
prepared now two questions that I will
tell you at the time I'll keep you in
suspense well Chris let me respond to
that because that's horrifying you know
every time
Donald thinks things are not going in
his direction he claims whatever it is
is rigged against him let's put that
little perspective now in the first
debate same question was asked and
Trump's answer was if she wins I will
absolutely support her a few hours ago
before the debate his running mate Mike
Pence governor Pence said on CNN will
certainly accept the outcome of this
election marvin let me bring in to call
wallace right now who worked with the in
the bush White House and the McCain
campaign Nicole when you heard that what
did you think about November 8th and
November 9th and the days beyond well if
someone that's been involved in
presidential debate prep my stomach sort
of sank for all the people who have
actually improved upon Trump's first
debate performance tremendously this was
you know by far his best performance
unfortunately for him it was also her
best performance but he by refusing to
say that he would accept the results of
the election on November 8th he may as
well have laid down in his own coffin
with a hammer and nail
and pounded it in himself no voter wants
to hear that a participant who has been
very 61 the primary how could the
primary have not been rigged against him
if he won so overwhelmingly to say that
he will not accept the result of a
hard-fought and robust election where
he's been pretty close in the polls
until very recently is really just a
disqualifying statement in the views of
many voters and and really the tragedy
for his base of support which is very
agitated and very sort of anxious to see
him do better is they got that improved
performance from him on questions like
trade they will like what they heard
from him on the economy and they will
like some of his other answers but by
saying he won't accept the results of
the election that was just a lights-out
moment in American politics
all right Nicole thank you I want to go
now to John Podesta Hillary Clinton's
campaign chair mr. Podesta good evening
thanks so much for joining us in the
spin room I do not hear you can you help
mr. Podesta be here you yeah we've got
you know I apologize so that give me
your sense of what we just spoke here to
love the low moments and the high months
for you well look I think Hillary came
in not preparing to play it safe she
went right at two things one is to make
the case about what she wanted to do for
the economy and immigration on those
sections that were on issues I think she
really scored tonight and she also
wanted to make the case that he was
unprepared and unfit and I think that
answer that Nicole was just talking
about where he said he wouldn't accept
the outcome of the election or he'd wait
and see whether he would accept it was
really a low moment for Donald Trump I
have to ask you the first half hour of
the debate Donald Trump came out rather
subdued what did you think at that
moment did you think you had a much
different debate than the one you had
planned for well I think that perhaps
because Chris started off on issues like
this the Supreme Court I think perhaps
he threw
Donald Trump off his game plan obviously
that was an area that Hillary was
familiar with and I think she scored big
with standing up for defending
reproductive rights standing up for LGBT
rights but I think that he was a little
bit rattled in that section because he
didn't really know what he wanted to
talk about but he was definitely a
different Donald Trump but he really got
cranked up at the end he ended when
Chris gave him that last minute to give
a closing argument and he kind of ended
where he began this campaign in a very
dark place
I just think from a from a overall point
of view that beginning with your debate
and at the end of three debates we now
have a very good idea about who these
candidates are what they represent what
their feelings are how they would
conduct themselves I think that's very
important and there were going to be a
lot of Republicans out there tonight
we're gonna be holding their hands over
their heads saying he didn't go back to
saying he would have to look at the
election again did he because they've
all walked away from that and you had a
real sense of where they are in terms of
detail on a lot of complicated issues
tax reform for example what are you
gonna do about Obamacare what you do
about the Supreme Court I saw that
Donald Trump Victor I'm a question about
taking money from the foundation from
Saudi Arabia and some other issues but
by and large if you look at the two
candidates one had a very strong agenda
acutely argued and the other one was
doing what we've been seeing from him
for a long long time going back overall
out of the phrases I don't know how it's
going to change the equation
mr. beard I say a question now from
Chuck Todd hey Jon I know that it's
probably disconcerting to see all your
private emails suddenly be made public
but let me ask you this question the
public is going to is digesting this is
reading these emails they see sort of
the sausage-making of watching a
campaign decide okay do we run how far
to the left do we run out far to the
center trying all these things what
should voters take away from from what
they're reading about I know you don't
want to confirm them but there is a
general
sense that they're learning that okay
what is she if she is centrist is she a
progressive is she calculating what
should voters learn from this you know
the last time we're in Las Vegas for a
debate it was in the primaries and she
got the question about what where are
you on the political spectrum then she
said that she was a progressive it likes
to get results and that's what I so
admire about Hillary that's what she's
always been about she's always fought
for women's rights children's rights for
families across the country but she's a
person who delivers results who gets
results she operates in prose I guess
but she's a person who really studies
the issues she prepared for this debate
she took this seriously I think to some
extent in contrast to her opponent and
when she's in office she'll do the same
thing work on behalf of the American
people and get results all right John
Podesta good to talk to you thanks for
making some time for us we appreciate it
we will continue our coverage of this
third and final debate from Las Vegas
after the short break I have to enlist
I'll be a medic I figure I'll be saving
people not killing them I want you to
meet private Desmond Dobbs private Doss
does not believe in violence
prepare to give my life for my men but
I'm sorry I will not bear arms I fell in
love with you because you weren't like
anyone else I don't know how I'm gonna
live with myself if I die was that rude
what I believe I'm sorry rated R in
theaters November 4th before it became a
medicine it was an idea a wild what-if
so scientists went to work they examined
87 different protein structures and
worked for 12 long years there were
thousands of patient volunteers and the
hope of millions and so after it became
a medicine someone who couldn't be cured
could be me
someone created a plague if I can break
the code we can stop this on October
28th Florence assemble Venice look at
this Clues all over the world and what's
the message so you can find the mystery
only he can solve everything I can't
stop this the worldwide phenomenon of
The Da Vinci Code and angels and demons
continues how much time we have 48 hours
to stop an extinction-level event
Inferno rated pg-13 SNL's new with those
Tom Hanks and musical guest Lady Gaga
this weekend NBC
decision night in America NBC News
brings you unparalleled coverage of this
unprecedented election join Westerhof
Savannah Capri and Chuck Todd live
November 8 for decision night in America
on NBC
look everything I see has no respect for
this person
well that's because he'd rather have a
puppet as president and okok today nope
it's pretty clear it
Vladimir Putin and Russia the first of
many flashpoints in tonight's 90-minute
debate the last debate between Hillary
Clinton and Donald Trump you want to go
to the spin room now NBC's Katy tur is
there Katy after every other debate
Trump has declared himself the winner
what's the sense you're getting from the
campaign right now about the performance
Kim the campaign is today happy with his
performance especially early on when he
was able to get to decisions around
SCOTUS who he would choose for the
supreme court appointing I will note
though that what did not come up and
what we expected to see come up more was
Benghazi we noted earlier on that they
did the campaign did invite Pat Smith a
Benghazi victim's mother there was
allegedly supposed to be a confrontation
one that forced between there and
Hillary Clinton on stage hitting her on
her foreign policy that did not happen
there were also a number of easily fact
petcock traditions that Donald Trump
gave during this debate performance won
his Iraq war stance another on
deliberation saying that does believe
that nuke North Korea South Korea excuse
me Japan and Saudi Arabia at nuclear
weapons he did say that in the past all
in all though a better debate
performance than Trump has had in the
past
Katy tur thanks and let that leads me
right to my question to the panel right
here if you just take this as a whole
how did Donald Trump realizing the
pressure was on him tonight how did he
do compared to his previous debates
overall it was his best performance but
as Nicole pointed up she was as good as
she's been it was also her best
performance but you know he stepped on
himself I mean I was just looking I mean
every new
paper headline and the debate is
breaking news Donald Trump is says you
won't isn't ready to accept the results
and remember you're like wait and guess
what everyone enjoys you and here's the
thing Tom every Republican on the ballot
tomorrow is going to get ass
senator act board candidate why are you
going to accept the results on November
by the way that comes after he said and
was at the second debate or your debate
that he would put her in jail if he
could if he became the person we put her
in jail the second debate first debate
he said he was going to support her
second debate put her in jail this time
not concede on an island on that issue
and contradicting well not only himself
but his daughter but his running mate
but the Republican secretaries of state
from around the country who say we run
these elections and and we are telling
you that there's not voter fraud that
would imperil the result of an election
so I think that's part of the problem
that he has is he's kind of swimming
against the tide here with this argument
let me go to Andrew Mitchell also in the
spin room she's been following the
Clinton campaign and we talked about
there was a lot of pressure certainly on
Donald Trump coming in here as the
underdog in the polls but a fair amount
of pressure as well on Secretary Clinton
to cut a home what she has how do her
folks feel right now well they of course
saying that they feel very confident and
actually they do that her performance
was with a strong performance she did
manage to pivot on Wikileaks to what
they wanted her to talk about which was
to try to get Donald Trump to disavow
vitomir Putin to accuse him of
supporting someone who is supporting
Russian espionage saying that 17
separate intelligence agencies have
concluded that it is a very strong
likelihood that Russia is behind this
stealing of the emails and the hacking
that then went to WikiLeaks and he
refused to back down with what he has
done all along which is to not criticize
Vladimir Putin also on nuclear weapons I
think they feel they're on very strong
grounds this was the first debate that
challenged both candidates on their
budget and tax proposals
sited the committee for a responsible
federal budget which is the best-known
arbiter of these things saying that both
of them are wrong but he far worse than
her so it was a substantive debate I
think that they also feel that he was
very weak on the women that she was
especially when she called him to task
for what he had said about the women who
accused him of sexual advances and he
accused Clinton of putting them up to it
which was the first time he has actually
said that
Lester Andrew Mitchell in this spin room
will take another break and be back with
more of our post debate coverage on NBC
the election coverage stressing you out
you could hide for the next month the
world can be a very dark and disturbing
place or you could treat yourself to the
perfect movie here for me when I'm
trying on lingerie kind of thing we do
it really fast in case the kids come
running into our room this Friday
it's a snake restaurant and Express they
don't sir panda keeping up with the
Joneses rated pg-13
we built our factories here because of a
huge natural resource not the land the
water or power sources it's the people
American workers they build world-class
products and that builds communities in
a better future for all of us because
making something in America means so
much to so many
WeatherTech proudly made in America
you're not a cook if you don't cook
you're not a firefighter if you don't
fight fires or a coach if you don't
coach and you can't be our leader
if you don't lead our next president
needs to take action on Social Security
where future generations could lose up
to $10,000 a year we're working hard
what about you
hey candidates do your job keep Social
Security strong after tonight's debate
wake up to everything that comes only on
today
me and the polls will tell you that you
have to write the club
but what about the idea that he will not
he says he's going to look into the
results of the election does that give
me pause it doesn't give me cause you
remember outward in 2000 nobody says
that had to try that they're not
Kellyanne Conway the campaign manager
for the Trump campaign talking to our
Hallie Jackson about one of the big
headlines tonight and that is Donald
Trump de marang de mirroring on the
question of whether he would accept the
outcome of the election let me bring in
Tom Brokaw on the air time now Tom 3rd
debates typically don't move the needle
do they no they don't and the way they
move the needle would be if he had been
somebody else tonight whether he'd
played at her level completely prepared
more engaging in a personal way
she came on as she always has going back
to her moot court days that you know
all-school extremely well prepared with
details on all of the proposals that she
wanted to get through and she did that
very very well and back on the business
about whether he'll accept it or not you
have to remember that Al Gore had 7
million more votes than George Bush and
watch the Supreme Court and what was
over he wasn't happy about it reset I
accept it and the same thing happened
with John Kerry who thought he was
robbed of votes and oh no and Ohio is a
long tradition of however bitter you may
be you accept it including Richard Nixon
against John Kennedy but then I'm sure
that played well to his base of
supporters I know it I think it did but
you know this is a case where he may
survive debate night and then post
debate the next couple of days aren't
going to go well from it and how he how
he handles and the way other Republicans
are just gonna rake them over the coals
for this subtext of him saying the
system is rigged and we can't trust the
results that's not an argument for how
to win it's an argument in our
explanation for why you lost and that's
not where you want to be as we wrap up I
know the next time we will see each
other together at a desk yes we remember
8:00 we don't want to go tonight that's
gonna do it for our prime time coverage
of the third and final presidential
debate much more debate reaction and
analysis throughout the night on MSNBC
on cable and on nbcnews.com and all the
fallout tomorrow morning on today a
reminder again the next time we'll be
together election night decision night
in America 20 days from now for Chuck
Todd Savannah Guthrie Tom Brokaw and our
entire team I'm Lester Holt saying good
night from Las Vegas
decision night in America NBC News
brings you unparalleled coverage of this
unprecedented election join Lester Holt
Savannah Guthrie and Chuck Todd live
November a poor decision night in
America on NBC